# the-cryptor

Text File encryption programme using an RSA Cipher in Python

The first version of this program had many errors. Most of the erros were as a results of me not understanding the code I was writing. However, I had the ppassion to write, but putting down what I wanted was the major challenge. However, that obstacle is now moved aside from my face. Thank to the python giants, educators and teachers such as Christian Mayer (finxter.com). I am now able to relate what I am writing.

First things forst, this app is meant to be a safe mode app for storing information, or notes, that a user would want to keep discrete. Even if someone gets access to contents of your stored notes, they should not be able to decipher what is within, unless they have the code to unlock them. That is where the idea for me to write this app comes from.

# How it works
The main source code consists of basically a notepad. The basic notepad where someone writes their notes, or letters, or whatever information they want to. Sometimes people write journals, others write novels, on notepad. the infterface is basically a notepad like the usual notepad but this one is written in Python 3.7

* To begin, run the [ the_cry.py ] code.

Once you open the notepad and have written whatever contents you want to on the screen, there is an option to save your work as general textfile. There is a Save option under the File menu.
However, if you want to save it in encrypted format, there is a button labelled Encrypt. Hit it once. The text will be converted to encrypted format. The screen will go blank too meaning all the words were collected and sent to another file.
+ Here is what happens during encryption process: 
      + Text is collected from the screen into a textfile named fil_et.txt.
      + The encryption process collects text from the fil_et.txt, encrypts it using its algorythm and then sends it to another file.
      + The new file is generated by the filePath generating method in python. However, I decided to use the Date and Time.
      + So each new file is stored in a new file filed according to the time, (exaclty to the minute and second specificity)
      + The fil_et.txt and another temporary file, cr_k_i.txt are emptied of their contents.
      + Done!
      
+ You can write and save as much files as possible and encrypt them. They wont overwrite each other, but will create different files for each encryption you make. It better to create a folder where you will direct the filePath to store the encrypted files.

If one wnted to now access the files they have been writing, there is a decription button ready to do the job. However, at this stage, we need to secure the access to data. When you click the Decrypt buton, a pop up window appears. Enter the PIN--[2143]. A filedialog popups. If the filedialog doesnt popup look at the screen of the login popup and you will see the error notice.
+ What happens during decryption:
    + The filedialog waits for the user to select the file to be decrypted.
    + Once selceted, the decryption process according to the algorithm takes place.
    + Once the contents have been decrypted, they are then displayed onto the notepad.
    + Read and enjoy
    + Once again, the contents of the temporary files as mentioned above are emptied. However this time there is no auto empter, but this time the emptying has to be done manually by clicking the New File from the File Menu.
    + Another way to empty the temps is by encrypting the file again. However, this process creates a new file. It does not store the file in the the old assigned file. So its upon the user to decide whether to encrypt or just start a new file.
    
      # Bugs
      1. There is still one major bug. When You change the font size, the whole editor zooms in or out. The larger the font the more it zooms in.
      
      2. The function for encryption shouldonly encrypt when the screen is not blank. Currently it encrypts even blank screen, or zero index data.

* Any improvements, kindly suggest and email me on
[hazelman@live.com]
Thank you

